Support for reusing existing kubernetes resources (#8521)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/deploying-to-kubernetes.adoc

In other words the extension will use whatever cluster `kubectl` uses. The same applies to credentials.

At the moment no additional options are provided for further customization.

== Using existing resources

Some times it's desirable to either provide additional resources (e.g. a ConfigMap, a Secret, a Deployment for a database etc) or provide custom ones that will be used as a `base` for the generation process.
Those resources can be added under `src/main/kubernetes` and can be named after the target environment (e.g. kubernetes.json, openshift.json, knative.json, or the yml equivalents). Each of these files may contain one or more Kubernetes resources.

Any resource found, will be added in the generated manifests. Global modifications (e.g. labels, annotations etc) will also be applied to those resources.

> If one of the provided resources has the same name with one of the generated resources, then the generated resource will be created on top of the provided, respecting existing content when possible (e.g. existing labels, annotations, environment variables, mounts, replicas etc).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If one of the provided resources has the same name as one of the generated resources, then the generated resource will be created on top of the provided, respecting existing content when possible (e.g. existing labels, annotations, environment variables, mounts, replicas etc).
```

The name of the resource is determined by the application name, and may be overridden by `quarkus.kubernetes.name`, `quarkus.openshift.name` and `quarkus.knative.name`.

> For example, in the kubernetes-quickstart application, we can add a `kuberenetes.yml` file in the `src/main/kubernetes` that looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in the kubernetes-quickstart application, we can add a `kubernetes.yml` file in the `src/main/kubernetes` that looks like:
```

[source,yaml]
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: kubernetes-quickstart
  labels:
    app: quickstart
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: quickstart
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: quickstart
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: kubernetes-quickstart
        image: someimage:latest
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
        env:
        - name: FOO
          value: BAR
---

The generated `kubernetes.yml` will look like:

[source,yaml]
---
apiVersion: "apps/v1"
kind: "Deployment"
metadata:

>   annotations:

Reviewer 2: suggestion, add asciidoctor callouts ( `## <>`) to mark the changed/unedited places to make it easier for the reader to spot the differences.

Author: Great idea!

    app.quarkus.io/build-timestamp: "2020-04-10 - 12:54:37 +0000"
  labels:

>     app: "greeting"

Reviewer 3: In the previous file, we have `app: quickstart`, and here, we have `app: "greeting"`. Is that correct, or a typo? If correct, it deserves explanation.

Author: Good point!

  name: "kubernetes-quickstart"
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: "kubernetes-quickstart"
      app.kubernetes.io/version: "1.0-SNAPSHOT"
  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:
        app.quarkus.io/build-timestamp: "2020-04-10 - 12:54:37 +0000"
      labels:
        app: "greeting"
    spec:
      containers:
      - env:
        - name: "FOO"
          value: "BAR"
        image: "<<yourDockerUsernmae>>/kubernetes-quickstart:1.0-SNAPSHOT"
        imagePullPolicy: "Always"
        name: "kubernetes-quickstart"
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
          name: "http"
          protocol: "TCP"
      serviceAccount: "kubernetes-quickstart"
---

> The provided, replicas, environment variables and labels where retained. However, the image and container port where modified. Also the standard annotations have been added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The provided replicas, environment variables and labels where retained. However, the image and container port where modified. Also the standard annotations have been added.
```

> The provided replicas, environment variables and labels where retained. However, the image and container port where modified. Moreover, the standard annotations have been added.

Reviewer 2: I assume you meant it to be "were retained" and "port were modified" ? might actually be clearer if we simplify and just writes "...where used as is. However, the image and container port where replaced and standard annotations were added"

Also by "standard" I assume you mean the default annotations dekorate/quarkus extension adds ? I would use "default" instead of standard.

Author: Makes sense!

> Note: If the resource name does not match the application name (or the overridden name) instead of reusing the resource a new one will be added. Similar is the case of the container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: If the resource name does not match the application name (or the overridden name) instead of reusing the resource a new one will be added. Same goes for the container.
```

In other words the extension will use whatever cluster `kubectl` uses. The same applies to credentials.

At the moment no additional options are provided for further customization.

== Using existing resources

> Some times it's desirable to either provide additional resources (e.g. a ConfigMap, a Secret, a Deployment for a database etc) or provide custom ones that will be used as a `base` for the generation process.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Sometimes it is desirable to either provide additional resources (e.g. a ConfigMap, a Secret, a Deployment for a database etc) or provide custom ones that will be used as a `base` for the generation process.
```

Those resources can be added under `src/main/kubernetes` and can be named after the target environment (e.g. kubernetes.json, openshift.json, knative.json, or the yml equivalents). Each of these files may contain one or more Kubernetes resources.

> Any resource found, will be added in the generated manifests. Global modifications (e.g. labels, annotations etc) will also be applied to those resources.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Any resource found will be added in the generated manifests. Global modifications (e.g. labels, annotations etc) will also be applied to those resources.
```

> If one of the provided resources has the same name as one of the generated resources, then the generated resource will be created on top of the provided, respecting existing content when possible (e.g. existing labels, annotations, environment variables, mounts, replicas etc).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If one of the provided resources has the same name as one of the generated resources, then the generated resource will be created on top of the provided resource, respecting existing content when possible (e.g. existing labels, annotations, environment variables, mounts, replicas etc).
```

The name of the resource is determined by the application name, and may be overridden by `quarkus.kubernetes.name`, `quarkus.openshift.name` and `quarkus.knative.name`.

> For example, in the `kubernetes-quickstart` application, we can add a `kubernetes.yml` file in the `src/main/kubernetes` that looks like:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example, in the `kubernetes-quickstart` application, we can add a `kubernetes.yml` file in the `src/main/kubernetes` directory that looks like:
```

          value: BAR
---

The generated `kubernetes.yml` will look like:

[source,yaml]
---
apiVersion: "apps/v1"
kind: "Deployment"
metadata:
  annotations:
    app.quarkus.io/build-timestamp: "2020-04-10 - 12:54:37 +0000"
  labels:
    app: "quickstart"
  name: "kubernetes-quickstart"
spec:
  replicas: 3 <1>
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: "kubernetes-quickstart"
      app.kubernetes.io/version: "1.0-SNAPSHOT"
  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:
        app.quarkus.io/build-timestamp: "2020-04-10 - 12:54:37 +0000"
      labels:
        app: "quickstart" <2>
    spec:
      containers:
      - env:
        - name: "FOO" <3>
          value: "BAR"
        image: "<<yourDockerUsernmae>>/kubernetes-quickstart:1.0-SNAPSHOT" <4>
        imagePullPolicy: "Always"
        name: "kubernetes-quickstart"
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8080 <5>
          name: "http"
          protocol: "TCP"
      serviceAccount: "kubernetes-quickstart"
---

The provided replicas <1>, labels <2> and environment variables <3>  were retained. However, the image <4> and container port <5> were modified. Moreover, the default annotations have been added.

> Note: If the resource name does not match the application name (or the overridden name) instead of reusing the resource a new one will be added. Same goes for the container.
> If the name of the container does not match the application name (or the overridden name), container specific configuration will be ignored.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
If the resource name does not match the application name (or the overridden name) instead of reusing the resource a new one will be added. Same goes for the container.
If the name of the container does not match the application name (or the overridden name), the container specific configuration will be ignored.
====
```
